We're almost done but there is some cleanup work we can do related to that.
It's nice that we can now load and store our recipes, that first of all means that we no longer need our
default recipes here though.
So I will comment that out, just to have it around in case we do need it again or we want that dummy data again
but I will initialize the recipes property, which is an array of recipes just as before, as an empty array
now so that when our app loads, we have no recipes and we need to load them. That of course is optional
but I guess it makes a bit more sense than loading some dummy data,
obviously you could do the same in the shopping list area. Now it's the first change and we also have
a bug in his application which we should fix.
Let's say we add a new recipe here, summer salad, let's add this image here, a juicy summer salad and now the important
thing, I won't add any ingredients to that recipe, instead let's save it like this which is valid,
we don't need to have ingredients
and now let me store that. So let's click save data and on Firebase, you can see there is a new item and that's
our summer salad
but please note, obviously it has no ingredients. Now generally our app works here but to prevent nasty
bugs, when we're fetching the recipes, it would make sense that we make sure that we always have ingredients,
even if it's just an empty array but that the data we loaded in the end has some ingredients and this
property is not undefined because if we otherwise try to directly interact with the ingredients, we
could get errors. And for that, we can simply add pipe here to our fetch recipes HTTP request and add the
map operator, which allows us to transform that data. For that we just need to import map from
rxjs/operators and this as you learned is an observable operator that allows you to transform the data
in an observable chain, so right before subscribe. Here we get our recipes but the recipes that might
not have an ingredients property and now here, we can simply return recipes but call map on these too
and now this can be confusing, map here in pipe is an rxjs/operator. Map here is called on an array
and therefore the normal Javascript array method map, they happen to have the same name but they are
not the same function, that's an rxjs/operator called as a function like this inside of pipe, that
is a Javascript array method.
Now map simply allows us to transform the elements in an array,
in this case in the recipes array. It takes an anonymous function which is executed for every element
in that array,
so therefore for every recipe and we return the transformed recipe.
Now here my idea is to return the original recipe but if that recipe doesn't have an ingredients array,
to set ingredients to an empty array instead and for this, I will return a new object where I use the
spread operator to copy all the properties of recipe, to copy all the existing data and then ingredients
will be set equal to
and now I'll add a ternary expression where I simply check whether recipe ingredients is true-ish, which
it is if it is an array with zero or more elements
and if that is the case, then I will set ingredients equal to recipe ingredients which means I will not
change it but otherwise, I'll set it to an empty array.
So if this here is kind of false, which is the case if ingredients is undefined, if it's not set, then
I will set it to an empty array instead
and that's just a tiny improvement here in this observable chain, which doesn't break our app, of course
it shouldn't.
We can still edit our recipe here, interact with it, save that and everything works as before but now
we have a little bit more protection against unexpected errors because now we ensure that the ingredients
property of the loaded recipes is always set to at least an empty array.